---
title: "Algorithm(1) - Asymptotic Analysis"
categories:
  - algorithm
tags:
  - algorithm
---

This is based on the algorithm lecture content of coursera. The lecture was provided as Standford.  I not only summarize the content of the lecture, but also write what I have studied in the past. I will use C++ as a programming language for practice.



First lecture was asymptotic analysis.



# Asymptotic Analysis

## 1. Guiding principle of algorithm analysis

- Worst-case-analysis: our running time bound holds for every input of length n.
- Won't pay attention to constant factors, loose-order terms.
- Asymptotic analysis: focus on running time for large input size n.



## 2. Asymptotic Analysis

- Suppress constant factors and lower order terms.
  - Constant factors are system dependent.
  - Lower order terms are irrelevant for large inputs.



## 3. Notation

#### 1. Big-O Notation

- Definition
  -  $T(n) = \Omicron (f(n)) $ if and only if there exist constant $c, n_0$ such that $T(n) <= c f(n)$ for all $n >= n_0$
  - Upper bound. ex) $O(n^3) = n^2 $ 



#### 2. Big-Omega Notation

- Definition
  -  $T(n) = \Omega (f(n)) $ if and only if there exist constant $c, n_0$ such that $T(n) >= c f(n)$ for all $n >= n_0$
  - Lower bound. ex) $\Omega(n) = n^2$



#### 3. Big-Theta Notation

- Definition
  - $T(n) = \Theta(f(n))$ if and only if  $T(n) = \Omega (f(n)) $ and  $T(n) = \Omicron (f(n)) $
  - It is equivalent of the following: there exist constant $c_1, c_2, n_0$ such that $c_1f(n) <= T(n) <= c_2f(n)$ for all $n >= n_0$



#### 4. Little-O Notation

- Definition
  - $T(n) = \omicron(f(n))$ if and only if **all contants $c >0$**, there exists a constant $n_0$ such that $T(n) <= c  f(n) $ for all $n >= n_0$



